---
date: 2026-06-09
layout: page
permalink: /now/
title: "What I'm Doing Now"
navlink: Now
---
This is my <a href="https://nownownow.com/about" target="_blank">Now-page</a>, inspired by <a href="https://sive.rs/" target="_blank">Derek Sivers</a>. Last updated on {{ page.date | date: '%e %B %Y' }}. Archive <a href="{{site.baseurl}}/then">here</a>.

## This Place
- When I launched this website I fully intended to publish on it regularly, but after the first three entries I sort of ... gave up. That's not where I want to leave things though. Updates will most likely continue to be intermittent for a good while yet, if they're ever any different, but I'm keeping the website up. That's a deliberate choice now. I always wanted it to be a space of my own, to publish some stuff on when and however I felt like it. It can still be that, even if I don't update it as regularly as I originally planned. It's sort of nice to know it's always here in case I do want to jump back in, however briefly.

## Work
- I spend a lot of my time these days thinking and talking about how higher education is being impacted by GenAI and how to adjust it to that reality and that is fine, most of the time. Or was? Recently I increasingly find myself wishing I could disengage from that whole debate more often than I can, so much so that there's times where even someone mentioning AI in passing sends a jolt of anxiety through my chest.  (To be fair AI is just one of *many* items on the list of things that make me want to run for the hills recently.)  
- I am involved in a project with the student admin department and our master's degree programmes that aims to improve some of their workflows around master's theses through the power of PowerAutomate. After initial development, small-scale testing and finetuning everything is now up and running, but it being early days I am monitoring the results carefully. It's been fun. (The most fun part? No AI required. I don't care what the hype says, right now AI agents just can't be trusted to handle sensitive data reliably or securely.)

## Home
- I hinted at it above, but ummm yeah, without going into much detail, my mental health has been in decline I guess for a while now and more recently took a real nosedive, making it impossible for me to ignore or deny any longer. Having no idea how to pick up the pieces I sought help and am back in therapy. Early days.  
- Finished my second year of Swedish night classes, which is a good thing. I need a bit of time off - referring back to the previous bullet: so much feels quite overwhelming right now and I want to be able to just, hit pause on certain things - though I'm sure to enroll for the next course, which starts in October. In the meantime I'm attempting to maintain my current proficiency level with the help of Anki, podcasts in simplified Swedish, and Maria Gripe's *Tordyveln flyger i skymningen*, the first book I've ever read in Swedish. Though it's not exactly easy, YA novels appear to be doable at my current level.    
- My boyfriend has been motivated lately to start and fix some things in our flat we never got around to fixing in the time since the major renovation was finished. My contribution to all of this is more of a practical kind: I offer support and feedback, try and not let my anxious and easily overwhelmed mind get too much in the way, and have been helping with the tidying up and clearing space where it's needed. About 70% done with pruning my book collection, with hopes of being able to finally move it out of the boxes it's currently being held in and onto bookshelves later in the year.
- Talking with a friend a while ago we realised we both wanted to try and do a multiple day hike at some point, which neither of us have ever done. So now we're making plans to do part of the [Mullerthal trail](https://www.mullerthal-trail.lu/en) in Luxembourg some time in the fall and officially started preparing for it at the end of May doing the [Bergbroekwandeling](https://www.wandelknooppunt.be/nl-be/wandelen/routes/r175/bergbroekwandeling) in Holsbeek. Plan now is to do one hike each month and make them a bit more challenging every time.  
- I have been getting back into music, even if my fluctuating mental state over the last few months has made even that process challenging at times. I've switched streaming services (Qobuz instead of Spotify), have been more deliberate in choosing what I listen to and which new (to me) music to try out, and am going to more concerts than I have for a good few years now. At some point this might culminate in me writing about it (I've been in a half a mind to for ohhh about two months now). It also might not.  
