---
date: 2025-01-08
layout: note
title: <a href="https://longreads.com/2020/01/22/in-defense-of-boris-the-russki/?mc_cid=dcce99af04" target="_blank">In Defense of Boris the Russki</a> by Ayşegül Savaş
categories:
    - Social justice
    - Literary criticism
---
The opening paragraphs might give the impression this essay by Ayşegül Savaş is nothing more than a piece of literary criticism focused on Donna Tartt's *The Goldfinch*. Put it aside for that reason and you'd be making a mistake, however. Savaş uses her discomfort with the novel's representation of Boris, the principal Russian character, as a jumping off point for a deeper exploration of how social justice discourse, despite and in contradiction of all its good intentions, favours certain groups of people over others. Liberal-minded people may no longer find it acceptable to present people of colour or LGBTQIA+ people in deeply stereotypical ways, for instance, but that same courtesy is not awarded Russian nationals, to name just one example. Why is that?

Confronting some of her friends with these thoughts, their reactions show Savaş that apparently, "*we have a limited potential for caring, [...] we can only care about groups who are “innocent” in their history and political structure.*" Further on she formulates this as a question: "*is it alright to equate our disdain for a country’s politics — if that is at the heart of this — with its people?*"

Reading this, I couldn't help but think of the anti-Israeli, anti-Jewish sentiment I see all around me currently, which all too often expands valid criticism of Israel's politics and actions to a disdain and hatred of its entire population, or even of all Jewish people. I do not condone accusations of antisemitism when they're used as a way to stifle legitimate criticism; there are definitely those who use them in that way. That does not mean, however, *all* accusations of antisemitism leveled at the pro-Palestinian movement fall under this category, as some seem to think. I'm disappointed, frankly, with the lack of willingness of certain groups in this movement to consider their statements with a higher degree of self-reflection and thoughtfulness.

Getting back to Savaş' essay, it truly is a great piece of writing and there's a lot I could and would like to quote, but this paragraph to my mind sums up the main point best:

> We might feel secure in our moral superiority, having adopted the latest politically correct language and attitudes. And yet, it is possible that we’ve set our sight only on a specific kind of experience while putting aside others, overlooking the same structures of thought that enforce exclusion. It is possible that political correctness, meant to protect human dignity, can become a rigid system of thought and lose sight of kindness as the compass with which we must orient ourselves in life and in art.

